
README for Tachyon(tm) Parallel/Multiprocessor Ray Tracing Software
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Tachyon - 1967, from Greek "tachys", meaning "swift" or "speedy",
          A hypothetical particle held to travel only faster than light.

Author: John E. Stone - johns@megapixel.com (preferred email address) 
                        j.stone@acm.org     (preferred email address)
                        johns@ks.uiuc.edu   (work email address)

What is Tachyon??
-----------------
  Tachyon is a result of my curiosities in computer graphics.  Some of 
  it was written as part of my M.S. degree in Computer Science, other 
  parts of it were done purely for their entertainment value.  
  In this collection of software, you will find:  

  - A portable, high performance parallel ray tracing system supporting 
    MPI and multithreaded implementations.  Tachyon is built as a 
    C callable library, which can be used with the included demo 
    programs or within your own application.  The distribution 
    also includes a simple scene file parser front-end which reads 
    a few different formats.

  - Tachyon implements all of the basic geometric primitives such as
    triangles, planes, spheres, cylinders, etc.  Some of the goals in 
    developing Tachyon were to make it fast and for it to parallelize 
    well.  These are what set it apart from more full-featured programs 
    like POV-Ray, Rayshade, and others.  Tachyon supports enough features 
    to be an excellent alternative to slower programs for demanding animation 
    and scientific visualization tasks.  As time goes on, Tachyon will 
    indeed incorporate more features, but with a continued emphasis on 
    rendering performance. 

  - Example scenes for use with the ray tracer and previewer.
    Note: some scenes require texture maps and/or volume data sets
          which are distributed seperately due to their large size.

How do I compile and run Tachyon?
---------------------------------
  The build process is quite simple.  On Unix, just cd into the 
  unix directory and type "make", you'll see a long list of configurations
  that can be built.  This will work fine for almost all Unix systems.
  If you wish to customize your build to enable optional features,
  you'll need to edit Make-config.  These are discussed in more
  detail in the README file included in the unix directory. 

  On Windows, the process is as simple as loading up the project files
  in the msvc subdirectory and building them.

  All of the documentation, research papers, and seperately distributed
  components related to this project can be retrieved from:
    http://jedi.ks.uiuc.edu/~johns/raytracer/
 
  In addition to the existing documentation, feel free to send me email
  with questions on how things work, or for help getting things compiled
  on platforms that aren't built into the makefiles that come with the
  distribution.

How can I contribute to further development?
--------------------------------------------
  I continue to work on this software in my free time.  I depend
  on other individuals or institutions to provide me access to 
  the various kinds of parallel computers Tachyon supports in 
  order to continue maintaining it on those platforms.  If you
  would like to see the software ported to a new parallel platform,
  send me a note, and I'll work with you on it.
  I would be happy to collaborate with others on extending 
  Tachyon for a wide variety of uses.   

Copyrights etc.
---------------
  All work included in this distribution is copyrighted by John E. Stone,
  except where noted within specific source files.  You may use this code
  for any purpose you wish, as long as credit is given to its source(s). 

Last updated August 3, 2003

   John E. Stone
   johns@megapixel.com
   j.stone@acm.org
   johns@ks.uiuc.edu

